From: Ted Anderson
Date: Sat, 10 Nov 2018 23:12:42 -0800 (5 days, 4 hours, 37 minutes ago)

Mike, Thanks for these details which bring back many memories.

Lars, I have a couple of details to add, but my memory for this sort
of thing is usually pretty rough.  Rick Kovalcik usually can recall
lots more details than I can, and perhaps he can add to this
discussion.

I think there were at least two editors I wrote: Tint (TINT is not
TECO)[3] and Sine (Sine is not Emacs).  The former had a very crude
extension language somewhat like TECO, the latter was mostly or
entirely written in a lisp-like implementation language.  But the
details are fuzzy now.  I'd recommends Craig Finseth's document[1],
and I recall his thesis (and a book) investigated this whole area of
history.  My thesis was about the editor writing project and so the
details could be gleaned there[2].

It looks like Mike's thesis on "Dynamic linking in a small address
space" is not in DSpace, but only available at Barton Library.

My recollection is that Rick and I started at the ArchMac working for
Seth to write user space utilities to help users access the earlier
Magic systems and eventually MagicSix that Mike was developing.

I also wrote Lisp interpreter that Craig Reynolds used for his early
animation work.  But I believe the effort to merge Sine and Lisp on
this system was considered but never completed.  My recollection was
the Bernie Greenberg implemented Multics Emacs and maybe Lisp there
too, and Dan Weinreb implemented Eine on the Lisp Machine.  I'm no
longer clear on the timing of these efforts, but there was
considerable interaction between them.

I'm afraid none of these details get you any closer to source or
binary code for MagicSix.  Rick may have some ideas where old backups
might be found.  The problem is that even if such a thing exists
somewhere, it is likely to be on a reel of 9-track magnetic tape...

HtH,
Ted

[1] http://www.finseth.com/emacs.html#137
[2] https://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/16038
[3]
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recursive_acronym#Computer-related_examples
